
     ***********************************************************

       GOOSE: The Goose Object-Oriented Statistics Environment

     ***********************************************************

Goose is a GPLed library of statistical functions implemented in C++.
It is designed to make it reasonably simple to perform statistical
calculations in a reasonably efficient manner.

The Free Software Foundation has been kind enough to host a web site
for Goose.  You'll find it at http://www.gnu.org/software/goose.

Goose 0.0.2 was GPLed.  Goose is currently now, and will continue in
the future to be LGPLed.  The GPL on 0.0.2 was a bit of an aberration
while some license issues were explored.  That is all sorted out for
now... I think.

Goose is being developed in parallel with Guppi (GNU/Gnome Useful Plot
Production Interface), a data visualization tool that will also
provide basic statistical functions.  Since Guppi is still at a *very*
early stage of its design, the level of statistical sophistication it
will support is still unclear.  However, it will ultimately offer, at
the very least, some light-weight statistical functionality.  (How
many times have *you* been annoyed by the inability of Gnuplot to do
even the simplest linear regressions?)

You can find the latest news about Guppi at http://www.gnome.org/guppi.

Goose doesn't have a mailing list of its own (yet), but it is a
frequent subject on the Guppi mailing list.  To subscribe, send mail
to guppi-list-request@gnome.org with "subscribe" in the subject line.

We've used the fact that Guppi depends on Goose as a rather flimsy
pretense for getting Goose into the Gnome CVS server.  See the gnome
pages (http://www.gnome.org) for info on how to get access.

Please send any questions, comments, suggestions, or patches to me via
e-mail.  If you use Goose to do something interesting or useful, I'd
like to hear about it.

Good luck!

- Jon Trowbridge <trow@emccta.com>

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

INSTALL NOTES:

If you are using goose out of CVS, type "./auto-gen.sh" to generate
the Makefiles, and then "make" to compile.  If you are using a tarball
release, all it takes is "configure" and "make".

On the Linux/PPC version that I have access to, -ansi and pthread.h
don't mix.  If your compile dies with a error in
/usr/include/pthread.h, try taking -ansi out of CXXFLAGS.  However,
even with this fix, I couldn't get the threaded version of the
bootstrap calculations to work.  Either I'm using threads in an
abusive way, or something is broken on my test PPC platform.

BTW, Goose is being primarily developed under Linux/x86.  I have
access to a box running Linux/PPC, so I'm able to check that
everything builds and runs properly on that platform.  (If anyone is
willing to give me access to any other platform for goose portability
testing, that would be great...)

I'm told that Goose can be built under Win32.  I've never tried it.

If you compile Goose with a recent version of egcs, you'll get *lots*
of warnings.  This is mostly due to problems with the guile headers.

I've had problems building with older releases of egcs (say, before 1.1.1).