SIunits:  The SI Library of Unit-Based Computation

Scientific programmers typically make heavy use of a programming
language's native numeric data types.  Such practice, however, obscures
the diverse intentions (e.g., distances, masses, energies, momenta,
etc.) that any such purely numeric value could represent.

While limitations in programming language expressiveness and compiler
technology have historically made such efforts difficult, the SI
Library, known as SIunits, provides, in a modern programming language
(C++), a convenient means of expressing, computing with, and displaying
numeric values with attached units.  The fundamental requirements, (1)
to apply compile-time type-checking while (2) avoiding time and space
overhead at run-time, have been met.  Thus, SIunits enables automated
(compile-time) checking of the dimensions of the numeric values within
a computer program, and so provides the well-known benefits of
type-safety to a new category of computing contexts.

In particular, SIunits provides data types corresponding to all the
base dimensions specified by le Systeme International d'Unites (SI),
the recognized international standard for describing measurable
quantities and their units.  SIunits also provides a mechanism to
generate additional data types to describe and represent derived
dimensions in accordance with SI's provisions.  Thus, for example, an
object resulting from the product of two Length objects is
automatically of type Area.

All the base and composite units specified by SI are provided as well,
as are forms of the mandated prefixes for describing multiples and
sub-multiples of the units.  A significant number of additional
standard values (any of which may be used as units), are also furnished
within the library.  As additional features, the library permits user
specification, at compile time, of precision, calibration, and models.
